---
layout: layout
title: Garmin2011
summary: Garmin International - Summer 2011
category: internship
---

## Garmin International - Summer 2011

During the summer of 2011, I worked at Garmin International in Olathe, KS. I worked on the Traffic software development team, under the Consumer Automotive division.

My main project was to design and implement an internal tool that is used to test the Traffic codebase. The tool was supposed to test both the public API of the Traffic codebase, as well as stress test the system. In order to fulfill these requirements, I built a number of modules that would generate random traffic events, send them to the Traffic codebase, then use the Traffic API to verify that it was returning valid results. To stress test the system, there were multiple threads running each performing different operations. This was designed to find deadlocks in the Traffic codebase.

My design for this tool provides interfaces and implementations that will allow the system to swap out different pieces for performing different tests. It also allows new features to easily be added to the test suite by simply implementing a simple interface. The whole system was automated using a Perl script. This allows the system to begin a test, and it will automatically grab the relevant information about a crash and restart the test.

Through this project, I was able to gain professional experience using C++, multithreading in C++, abstract design in C++, Perl, and the Git version control system.
