---
layout: layout
title: Cumulative Reflection
summary: Cumulative Reflection
category: general
---

## Cumulative Reflection

I have always been interested in technology and computers. I started helping out in the computer lab when I was in 4th grade, and ever since then I have wanted to work with computers and learn how they work. My experiences throughout the last four years have strengthened this interest and encouraged me to continue learning and exploring.

Starting from the first engineering course I took at Iowa State, I have been encouraged to try new things, and stretch beyond just what was presented in class to build and design cool things. The first major project came in CprE 186, where we split into teams and built a project based on our own ideas. My team chose to take our understanding of C and accelerometer output and make an iPhone app that records motion data using the built-in accelerometer to match motion events. This took a lot of critical thinking to design an algorithm that would be able to accurately compare sets of motion logs, in a manner that would work efficiently on a device with a small amount of memory and processing power.

In addition to exploring beyond the concepts we learn in the classroom, Iowa State has encouraged team work from day one. In the majority of the lab based classes I have taken, we work in teams. Being able to work in a team is a great learning experience. Not only do you have someone else to bounce ideas off of, but you also have someone to help explain troublesome concepts. If your partner is having trouble with some concepts, you have the opportunity to try and explain your understanding of it. Being able to teach and explain a concept reinforces your understanding.

Outside of the classroom, I have tried to be involved in activities not only related to engineering, but also in the arts. I have played the trumpet in the Iowa State Symphonic Band all four years, and have enjoyed it every year. Being able to create music with a bunch of like-minded people is great. I have always enjoyed making music, and have enjoyed being able to continue doing that even with my tough engineering schedule. I have also found it nice to be able to talk with and provide my thoughts on classes with some of the younger Computer/Electrical engineers that are in the band. As an upperclassman, I don't normally get to interact with the younger students in engineering courses. But having the ability to connect with them through music provides that opportunity.

I also enjoy participating in events sponsored by the Information Assurance Student Group (IASG). Information security is a huge issue in today's network societies. IASG provides students with ways to explore the information security field in a way that isn't possible anywhere else. Through the Cyber Defense Competitions, I have had the opportunity to set up and secure a network on enterprise-grade servers. This is the only place I know of that allows students to work on this level of hardware. I enjoy participating in these competitions for a number of reasons. First of all, they are team events. This gives the same benefits I talked about previously. In addition, I get to learn in a way that works best for me - hands on. I learn best by doing things myself. The Cyber Defense Competition is a great way for me to learn about network security, as I get to set up servers and explore and try out different configurations to see what works best. Being able to act on my curiosity is a great experience.

In my free time, I enjoy building applications that solve a problem I have been having. If a problem is annoying enough to me, I figure it will be a problem other people will have at some point. So when I build an application that solves my problem, I am benefiting the community as well. I enjoy building these applications too, since I often get to try out new technologies and practices in a way that is different from the 'canned' examples that are often assigned as homework or lab problems. It offers me a way to apply what I have learned in the classroom to a real-world problem.

My experiences throughout the last four years at Iowa State have offered me a way to explore technology and build a solid foundation for my professional career. I am confident that wherever I end up, and whatever I end up doing, I will be able to reason my way through most any problem using the knowledge and experiences I have picked up while attending Iowa State.
