---
layout: layout
title: Garmin2012
summary: Garmin International - Summer 2012
category: internship
---

## Garmin International - Summer 2012

During the summer of 2012, I worked at Garmin International in Olathe, KS. I worked on the Traffic software development team, under the Consumer Automotive division.

My main project was to redesign and implement an internal tool that is used to analyze the data from the traffic providers. There were a number of reasons that this project was important to the Traffic team.  First of all, the existing tool was not originally designed to do everything they currently want it to do. When the original tool was designed, it was made to replace a Perl script that performed some analysis of the data. As time went on, they kept adding more and more features to this tool, far beyond what the original design could easily support. My job was to completely redesign the tool so that it was easily extensible, while supporting the same operations the current tool supports.

My design for this tool provides interfaces and implementations that will allow the team to easily swap out different pieces for performing different tests. It removes the high coupling that the previous tool had between system logic and output formatting, and runs multiple tests concurrently making the overall runtime significantly faster than the previous tool.

Through this project, I was able to gain professional experience using C++, the Visual Studio build system, abstract design in C++, and the Git version control system.
